CTF3.md, before:

# CTF Week #3 (Wordpress CVE)

## Recognition

To begin, we accessed the target at http://143.47.40.175:5001, navigated to the `Shop` section, and selected `WordPress Hosting`. From there, we reviewed the `Additional Information` at the following URL: http://143.47.40.175:5001/product/wordpress-hosting/.

<p align="center" justify="center">
  <img src="./assets/ctf3/plugins.png"/>
</p>

## CVE Research

Next, we conducted a vulnerability search via the [Search CVE List](https://cve.mitre.org/cve/search_cve_list.html). The search query was composed of relevant versions and plugins: `Wordpress 5.8.1 MStore API 3.9.0 WooCommerce 5.7.1 Booster for WooCommerce 5.4.4`.

This search yielded four potential CVEs:

<p align="center" justify="center">
  <img src="./assets/ctf3/CVEs.png"/>
</p>

## CVE Selection

The goal was to exploit a vulnerability that would allow administrative access. After analysis, the most applicable CVEs for this purpose were: `CVE-2023-2734`, `CVE-2023-2733`, and `CVE-2023-2732`.

## Finding an Exploit

While searching for exploits, we discovered a GitHub repository containing an exploit for `CVE-2023-2732`, available [here](https://github.com/RandomRobbieBF/CVE-2023-2732).

Although an attempt to execute the provided script resulted in errors, we analyzed the source code and identified two key functions:

1. **fetch_usernames_rest_api**: This function retrieves the list of WordPress users via the REST API. 

    ```py
    def fetch_usernames_rest_api(wordpress_url):
        headers = {'User-Agent': 'Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/58.0.3029.110 Safari/537.36 Edge/16.16299'}
        response = session.get(f"{wordpress_url}/wp-json/wp/v2/users", headers=headers,verify=False,timeout=30)
        ...
    ```
2. **sendem**: This function sends a request that exploits the vulnerability to add administrative permissions for a specified user.
    ```py
    def sendem(user_id, username):
        # Set up the request headers
        headers = {'User-Agent': 'Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/58.0.3029.110 Safari/537.3'}
        # Send the request
        response = session.get(""+wordpress_url+"/wp-json/wp/v2/add-listing?id="+str(user_id)+"", headers=headers,verify=False,timeout=30)
        ...
    ```

The `fetch_usernames_rest_api` function allows us to extract user IDs, and `sendem` facilitates privilege escalation by exploiting the identified vulnerability.

## Exploiting the Vulnerability

1. We accessed http://143.47.40.175:5001/wp-json/wp/v2/users and retrieved the list of users as a JSON response:
<p align="center" justify="center">
  <img src="./assets/ctf3/admin_id.png"/>
</p>

2. From the response, we identified that the Administrator's user ID is `1`.
3. Using the `sendem` function, we crafted a URL to exploit the vulnerability by entering the following into the browser: http://143.47.40.175:5001/wp-json/wp/v2/add-listing?id=1. When trying to access this URL, the browser will start to load for a long time and, analyzing the requests, we can see that the same GET request to the URL is being executed in a loop, ending in a message saying "The page isn’t redirecting properly". However, the response to these requests come with cookies  with the admin login information, effectively granting administrative permissions to our session.
4. We searched for common URL patterns used for the WordPress admin dashboard and identified http://143.47.40.175:5001/wp-admin/index.php as a potential entry point. Upon accessing this URL, we successfully reached the admin dashboard. From there, we navigated to the **Posts** section, where we found a post titled "Message for our Employers", which contained the CTF flag.

Commit message:

Add "Vulnerability Remidiation" section and document first flag submission
Co-authored-by: Mansur Mustafin <mustafin.mansur02@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Rodrigo Coelho <racoelhosilva@users.noreply.github.com>

CTF3.md, after:

# CTF Week #3 (Wordpress CVE)

## Recognition

To begin, we accessed the target at http://143.47.40.175:5001, navigated to the `Shop` section, and selected `WordPress Hosting`. From there, we reviewed the `Additional Information` at the following URL: http://143.47.40.175:5001/product/wordpress-hosting/.

<p align="center" justify="center">
  <img src="./assets/ctf3/plugins.png"/>
</p>

## CVE Research

Next, we conducted a vulnerability search via the [Search CVE List](https://cve.mitre.org/cve/search_cve_list.html). The search query was composed of relevant versions and plugins: `Wordpress 5.8.1 MStore API 3.9.0 WooCommerce 5.7.1 Booster for WooCommerce 5.4.4`.

This search yielded four potential CVEs:

<p align="center" justify="center">
  <img src="./assets/ctf3/CVEs.png"/>
</p>

## CVE Selection

The goal was to exploit a vulnerability that would allow administrative access. After analysis, the most applicable CVEs for this purpose were: `CVE-2023-2734`, `CVE-2023-2733`, and `CVE-2023-2732`.

Since we needed to submit the vulnerability code as the first CTF flag, we got the confirmation that the vulnerability was indeed `CVE-2023-2732`.

## Finding an Exploit

While searching for exploits, we discovered a GitHub repository containing an exploit for `CVE-2023-2732`, available [here](https://github.com/RandomRobbieBF/CVE-2023-2732).

Although an attempt to execute the provided script resulted in errors, we analyzed the source code and identified two key functions:

1. **fetch_usernames_rest_api**: This function retrieves the list of WordPress users via the REST API. 

    ```py
    def fetch_usernames_rest_api(wordpress_url):
        headers = {'User-Agent': 'Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/58.0.3029.110 Safari/537.36 Edge/16.16299'}
        response = session.get(f"{wordpress_url}/wp-json/wp/v2/users", headers=headers,verify=False,timeout=30)
        ...
    ```
2. **sendem**: This function sends a request that exploits the vulnerability to add administrative permissions for a specified user.
    ```py
    def sendem(user_id, username):
        # Set up the request headers
        headers = {'User-Agent': 'Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/58.0.3029.110 Safari/537.3'}
        # Send the request
        response = session.get(""+wordpress_url+"/wp-json/wp/v2/add-listing?id="+str(user_id)+"", headers=headers,verify=False,timeout=30)
        ...
    ```

The `fetch_usernames_rest_api` function allows us to extract user IDs, and `sendem` facilitates privilege escalation by exploiting the identified vulnerability.

## Exploiting the Vulnerability

1. We accessed http://143.47.40.175:5001/wp-json/wp/v2/users and retrieved the list of users as a JSON response:
<p align="center" justify="center">
  <img src="./assets/ctf3/admin_id.png"/>
</p>

2. From the response, we identified that the Administrator's user ID is `1`.
3. Using the `sendem` function, we crafted a URL to exploit the vulnerability by entering the following into the browser: http://143.47.40.175:5001/wp-json/wp/v2/add-listing?id=1. When trying to access this URL, the browser will start to load for a long time and, analyzing the requests, we can see that the same GET request to the URL is being executed in a loop, ending in a message saying "The page isn’t redirecting properly". However, the response to these requests come with cookies  with the admin login information, effectively granting administrative permissions to our session.
4. We searched for common URL patterns used for the WordPress admin dashboard and identified http://143.47.40.175:5001/wp-admin/index.php as a potential entry point. Upon accessing this URL, we successfully reached the admin dashboard. From there, we navigated to the **Posts** section, where we found a post titled "Message for our Employers", which contained the second CTF flag.

## Vulnerability Remediation

This vulnerability is caused by the MStore API plugin for WordPress not performing sufficient verification on the user being supplied during the add listing REST API request, for versions up to, and including, 3.9.2, as stated in [Wordfence](https://www.wordfence.com/threat-intel/vulnerabilities/wordpress-plugins/mstore-api/mstore-api-392-authentication-bypass). For this reason, the solution is to update the plugin to version 3.9.3, or a newer patched version.
