CTF7.md, before:

# CTF Week #7 (Cross Site Scripting - XSS)

## Recognition

In this CTF, we have been given an URL link (http://10.227.243.188:5007/) to a webpage, which hosts a Web file sharing service. This page also exhibits the contents of the README.md in the first page, showing that the service is based on [copyparty](https://github.com/9001/copyparty).

<p align="center" justify="center">
    <img src="./assets/"> <!-- Image from the website -->
</p>

In this web page, we can see that there is a file named `flag.txt`, which must obviously contain the flag. However, if we try to open it, we only receive the message "Nice try, I am only accessible via JavaScript shenanigans."

<p align="center" justify="center">
    <img src="./assets/"> <!-- Message from JavaScript -->
</p>

Although there are more things on this page that can be explored, not much is relevant for exploiting it.

## CVE Research

The first thing we did to find an exploit is to find documented vulnerabilities associated with copyparty. By going to its [GitHub repository](https://github.com/9001/copyparty), and going to the "Security" tab, we see three vulnerabilities that affected older versions of the service.

We can also see that the most recently patched vulnerability has the code CVE-2023-38501 and the name ["Reflected cross-site scripting via k304 parameter"](https://github.com/9001/copyparty/security/advisories/GHSA-f54q-j679-p9hh) . According to its description, affected applications are susceptible to cross site scripting via the URL parameter `k304` or `setck`, which "could allow an attacker to execute malicious javascript code by tricking users into accessing a malicious link".

To verify if a service is affected, a proof-of-concept (PoC) URL is provided:

```
https://localhost:3923/?k304=y%0D%0A%0D%0A%3Cimg+src%3Dcopyparty+onerror%3Dalert(1)%3E
```

This url contains inside `k304` an HTML element `<img src=... onerror=...>`, properly URL encoded, where `src` is an invalid link and `onerror` has the malicious JavaScript code to be executed. In the PoC, since the `src`' URL is invalid, it will execute the `onerror` code `alert(1)`, which creates a prompt with the text "1". By modifying the host and accessing the resulting URL, `https://10.227.243.188:5007/?k304=y%0D%0A%0D%0A%3Cimg+src%3Dcopyparty+onerror%3Dalert(1)%3E`, we confirmed that the prompt indeed appears, indicating that the site is vulnerable to XSS attacks using this method.

<p align="center" justify="center">
    <img src="./assets/"> <!-- Example proof of concept -->
</p>

## Finding an Exploit

Since accessing the file `flag.txt` points "I am only accessible via JavaScript shenanigans", our idea was to fetch the content of the flag file by performing a request through JavaScript. For this, we can use the [Fetch API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API), through the function `fetch`, to make a GET request to the website endpoint that matches the file.

## Exploiting the Vulnerability

To build the exploit URL, we removed the URL encoded `img` element from the PoC URL (to get `https://localhost:3923/?k304=y%0D%0A%0D%0A`), and created our own `img` element with the same `src` and, on error, will perform a GET request to the path `/flag.txt`.

```html
<img src=copypasta onerror="fetch('/flag.txt').then(r => r.text()).then(alert)">
```

Then, we URL encoded this element using [this website](https://www.urlencoder.org/) and appended to the previous base URL to get:

```
https://10.227.243.188:5007/?k304=y%0D%0A%0D%0A%3Cimg%20src%3Dcopypasta%20onerror%3D%22fetch%28%27%2Fflag.txt%27%29.then%28r%20%3D%3E%20r.text%28%29%29.then%28alert%29%22%3E
```

Accessing this URL effectively opens the website and launches an alert with the flag!

<p align="center" justify="center">
    <img src="./assets/"> <!-- Flag image blurred -->
</p>

## XSS Characterization

In this CTF, we managed to obtain the flag using a Reflected XSS exploit.  
This type of attack happens when the attacker uses requests (in this case, the URL with the extra parameter) to attack a legitimate website. This malicious payload is then "reflected" to execute on the client (in this case, showing the hidden flag through the HTML element).

Commit message:

feat: better XSS description
Co-authored-by: Bruno Oliveira <Process-ing@users.noreply.github.com>

CTF7.md, after:

# CTF Week #7 (Cross Site Scripting - XSS)

## Recognition

In this CTF, we have been given an URL link (http://10.227.243.188:5007/) to a webpage, which hosts a Web file sharing service. This page also exhibits the contents of the README.md in the first page, showing that the service is based on [copyparty](https://github.com/9001/copyparty).

<p align="center" justify="center">
    <img src="./assets/"> <!-- Image from the website -->
</p>

In this web page, we can see that there is a file named `flag.txt`, which must obviously contain the flag. However, if we try to open it, we only receive the message "Nice try, I am only accessible via JavaScript shenanigans."

<p align="center" justify="center">
    <img src="./assets/"> <!-- Message from JavaScript -->
</p>

Although there are more things on this page that can be explored, not much is relevant for exploiting it.

## CVE Research

The first thing we did to find an exploit is to find documented vulnerabilities associated with copyparty. By going to its [GitHub repository](https://github.com/9001/copyparty), and going to the "Security" tab, we see three vulnerabilities that affected older versions of the service.

We can also see that the most recently patched vulnerability has the code CVE-2023-38501 and the name ["Reflected cross-site scripting via k304 parameter"](https://github.com/9001/copyparty/security/advisories/GHSA-f54q-j679-p9hh) . According to its description, affected applications are susceptible to cross site scripting via the URL parameter `k304` or `setck`, which "could allow an attacker to execute malicious javascript code by tricking users into accessing a malicious link".

To verify if a service is affected, a proof-of-concept (PoC) URL is provided:

```
https://localhost:3923/?k304=y%0D%0A%0D%0A%3Cimg+src%3Dcopyparty+onerror%3Dalert(1)%3E
```

This url contains inside `k304` an HTML element `<img src=... onerror=...>`, properly URL encoded, where `src` is an invalid link and `onerror` has the malicious JavaScript code to be executed. In the PoC, since the `src`' URL is invalid, it will execute the `onerror` code `alert(1)`, which creates a prompt with the text "1". By modifying the host and accessing the resulting URL, `https://10.227.243.188:5007/?k304=y%0D%0A%0D%0A%3Cimg+src%3Dcopyparty+onerror%3Dalert(1)%3E`, we confirmed that the prompt indeed appears, indicating that the site is vulnerable to XSS attacks using this method.

<p align="center" justify="center">
    <img src="./assets/"> <!-- Example proof of concept -->
</p>

## Finding an Exploit

Since accessing the file `flag.txt` points "I am only accessible via JavaScript shenanigans", our idea was to fetch the content of the flag file by performing a request through JavaScript. For this, we can use the [Fetch API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API), through the function `fetch`, to make a GET request to the website endpoint that matches the file.

## Exploiting the Vulnerability

To build the exploit URL, we removed the URL encoded `img` element from the PoC URL (to get `https://localhost:3923/?k304=y%0D%0A%0D%0A`), and created our own `img` element with the same `src` and, on error, will perform a GET request to the path `/flag.txt`.

```html
<img src=copypasta onerror="fetch('/flag.txt').then(r => r.text()).then(alert)">
```

Then, we URL encoded this element using [this website](https://www.urlencoder.org/) and appended to the previous base URL to get:

```
https://10.227.243.188:5007/?k304=y%0D%0A%0D%0A%3Cimg%20src%3Dcopypasta%20onerror%3D%22fetch%28%27%2Fflag.txt%27%29.then%28r%20%3D%3E%20r.text%28%29%29.then%28alert%29%22%3E
```

Accessing this URL effectively opens the website and launches an alert with the flag!

<p align="center" justify="center">
    <img src="./assets/"> <!-- Flag image blurred -->
</p>

## XSS Characterization

In this CTF, as previously mentioned in the vulnerability description, we managed to obtain the flag using a Reflected XSS exploit.  
This type of attack happens when the attacker uses requests (in this case, the URL with the extra parameter) to attack a legitimate website. This malicious payload is then "reflected" to execute on the client (in this case, showing the hidden flag through the HTML element).
